Preparing one end-to-end aspnetcore web app MS Graph sample (#483)
Azure-Samples/active-directory-aspnetcore-webapp-openidconnect-v2: 2-WebApp-graph-user/2-1-Call-MSGraph/README.md

urlFragment: active-directory-aspnetcore-webapp-openidconnect-v2
description: "This sample demonstrates a ASP.NET Core Web App calling the Microsoft Graph"
---

# Using the Microsoft identity platform to call the Microsoft Graph API from an ASP.NET Core Web App, on behalf of a user signing-in using their work and school account

 1. [Overview](#overview)
 1. [Scenario](#scenario)
 1. [Contents](#contents)
 1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
 1. [Setup](#setup)
 1. [Registration](#registration)
 1. [Running the sample](#running-the-sample)
 1. [Explore the sample](#explore-the-sample)
 1. [About the code](#about-the-code)
 1. [Deployment](#deployment)
 1. [More information](#more-information)
 1. [Community Help and Support](#community-help-and-support)
 1. [Contributing](#contributing)

[![Build status](https://identitydivision.visualstudio.com/IDDP/_apis/build/status/AAD%20Samples/.NET%20client%20samples/ASP.NET%20Core%20Web%20App%20tutorial)](https://identitydivision.visualstudio.com/IDDP/_build/latest?definitionId=819)

## Overview

> This sample demonstrates a ASP.NET Core Web App calling the Microsoft Graph on behalf of a signed-in user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample demonstrates an ASP.NET Core Web App calling the Microsoft Graph API on behalf of a signed-in user.
```

`on behalf of a signed-in user` would that confuse anyone i.e. OBO?

## Scenario

1. The client ASP.NET Core Web App uses the [Microsoft.Identity.Web](https://aka.ms/microsoft-identity-web) to sign-in and obtain a JWT [access Tokens](https://aka.ms/access-tokens) from **Azure AD**.
2. The access token is used as a bearer token to authorize the user to call the Microsoft Graph API.

![Sign in with the Microsoft identity platform and call Graph](ReadmeFiles/sign-in.png)

## Prerequisites

- Either [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) or [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) and [.NET Core SDK](https://www.microsoft.com/net/learn/get-started)
- An **Azure AD** tenant. For more information see: [How to get an Azure AD tenant](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-create-new-tenant)

> - A user account in your **Azure AD** tenant. This sample will not work with a **personal Microsoft account**. Therefore, if you signed in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) with a personal account and have never created a user account in your directory before, you need to do that now.

Author: resolved, leaving the comment open for @derisen to note for code gen work and then close

## Setup

### Step 1: Clone or download this repository

From your shell or command line:

```console
    git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-aspnetcore-webapp-openidconnect-v2.git
```

or download and extract the repository .zip file.

> :warning: To avoid path length limitations on Windows, we recommend cloning into a directory near the root of your drive.

Go to the `"2-WebApp-graph-user\2-1-Call-MSGraph"` folder

 ```Sh
  cd "2-WebApp-graph-user\2-1-Call-MSGraph"
  ```

> > Developers who wish to gain good familiarity of programming for Microsoft Graph are advised to go through the [An introduction to Microsoft Graph for developers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EBbnpFdB92A) recorded session.

Author: resolved, leaving the comment open for @derisen to note for code gen work and then close

1. In PowerShell run:

   ```PowerShell
   Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope Process -Force
  ```

1. Run the script to create your Azure AD application and configure the code of the sample application accordingly.
1. In PowerShell run:

   ```PowerShell
   cd .\AppCreationScripts\
   .\Configure.ps1
  ```

   > Other ways of running the scripts are described in [App Creation Scripts](./AppCreationScripts/AppCreationScripts.md)
   > The scripts also provide a guide to automated application registration, configuration and removal which can help in your CI/CD scenarios.

</details>

### Choose the Azure AD tenant where you want to create your applications

As a first step you'll need to:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. If your account is present in more than one Azure AD tenant, select your profile at the top right corner in the menu on top of the page, and then **switch directory** to change your portal session to the desired Azure AD tenant.

> ### Register the webApp app (WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2)

Author: @derisen to note and close

1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and select the **Azure AD** service.
1. Select the **App Registrations** blade on the left, then select **New registration**.
1. In the **Register an application page** that appears, enter your application's registration information:
   - In the **Name** section, enter a meaningful application name that will be displayed to users of the app, for example `WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2`.
   - Under **Supported account types**, select **Accounts in this organizational directory only**.
   - In the **Redirect URI (optional)** section, select **Web** in the combo-box and enter the following redirect URI: `https://localhost:44321/`.
     > Note that there are more than one redirect URIs used in this sample. You'll need to add them from the **Authentication** tab later after the app has been created successfully.
1. Select **Register** to create the application.

> 1. In the app's registration screen, find and note the **Application (client) ID**. You use this value in your app's configuration file(s) later in your code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the app's registration screen, find and note the **Application (client) ID**. You'll need to use this value in your app's configuration files.
```

Author: @derisen to note and close

1. In the app's registration screen, select **Authentication** in the menu.
   - If you don't have a platform added, select **Add a platform** and select the **Web** option.
   - In the **Redirect URIs** section, enter the following redirect URIs.
      - `https://localhost:44321/signin-oidc`
   - In the **Front-channel logout URL** section, set it to `https://localhost:44321/signout-oidc`.
1. Select **Save** to save your changes.
1. In the app's registration screen, select the **Certificates & secrets** blade in the left to open the page where we can generate secrets and upload certificates.
1. In the **Client secrets** section, select **New client secret**:
   - Type a key description (for instance `app secret`),
   - Select one of the available key durations (**6 months**, **12 months** or **Custom**) as per your security posture.

>    - The generated key value will be displayed when you select the **Add** button. Copy the generated value for use in the steps later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The generated key value will be displayed when you select the **Add** button. Copy and save the generated value for use in later steps.
```

Author: @derisen to note and close

   - You'll need this key later in your code's configuration files. This key value will not be displayed again, and is not retrievable by any other means, so make sure to note it from the Azure portal before navigating to any other screen or blade.
1. In the app's registration screen, select the **API permissions** blade in the left to open the page where we add access to the APIs that your application needs.
   - Select the **Add a permission** button and then,
   - Ensure that the **Microsoft APIs** tab is selected.
   - In the *Commonly used Microsoft APIs* section, select **Microsoft Graph**
   - In the **Delegated permissions** section, select the **User.Read** in the list. Use the search box if necessary.
   - Select the **Add permissions** button at the bottom.

> #### Configure the webApp app (WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2) to use your app registration

Author: @derisen to note and close

Open the project in your IDE (like Visual Studio or Visual Studio Code) to configure the code.

> Open the project in your IDE (like Visual Studio) to configure the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the project in your IDE (like Visual Studio) to configure the code.
```

Redundant

>In the steps below, "ClientID" is the same as "Application ID" or "AppId".

1. Open the `appsettings.json` file.
1. Find the key `ClientId` and replace the existing value with the application ID (clientId) of `WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2` app copied from the Azure portal.
1. Find the key `TenantId` and replace the existing value with your Azure AD tenant ID.
1. Find the key `Domain` and replace the existing value with your Azure AD tenant name.
1. Find the key `ClientSecret` and replace the existing value with the key you saved during the creation of `WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2` copied from the Azure portal.

> - In case you want to deploy your app in Sovereign or national clouds, ensure the `GraphApiUrl` option matches the one you want. By default this is Microsoft Graph in the Azure public cloud

Reviewer: Can we add the link: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/deployments

Reviewer: Also, if we mention this, might as well mention configuring `instance` property in appsettings.json, with link to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/authentication-national-cloud

  ```JSon
   "GraphApiUrl": "https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0"
  ```

## Running the sample

> For Visual Studio Users
>
> Clean the solution, rebuild the solution, and run it.  You might want to go into the solution properties and set the right startup project first.

```console
    dotnet run
```

## Explore the sample

1. Open your web browser and make a request to the app at url `https://localhost:44321`. The app immediately attempts to authenticate you via the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. Sign in with a work or school account.

1. Provide consent to the screen presented

> 1. Click on the **Profile** link on the top menu, you should now see all kind of information about yourself as well as your picture (a call was made to the Microsoft Graph */me* endpoint)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click on the **Profile** link on the top menu. The web app will make a call to the Microsoft Graph */me* endpoint. You should see information about the signed-in account, as well as its picture, if these values are set in the account's profile.
```

> > Did the sample not work for you as expected? Did you encounter issues trying this sample? Then please reach out to us using the [GitHub Issues](../../../../issues) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Did the sample not work for you as expected? Did you encounter issues trying this sample? Then please reach out to us using the [GitHub Issues](../../../../issues) page.
```

link is broken, maybe one level up?

> [Consider taking a moment to share your experience with us.](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRz0h_jLR5HNJlvkZAewyoWxUNEFCQ0FSMFlPQTJURkJZMTRZWVJRNkdRMC4u)

## About The code

> 1. In your aspnet core web project, add the `Microsoft.Identity.Web` and `Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI` NuGet packages. It's used to simplify signing-in and acquiring tokens for Microsoft Graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable your own ASP.NET Core web application to sign in and call Microsoft Graph like this sample, you must implement the following steps.

### Add the Microsoft.Identity.Web and Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI NuGet packages

In your ASP.NET Core web project, add the `Microsoft.Identity.Web` and `Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI` NuGet packages. These packages are used to simplify signing-in and acquiring tokens for Microsoft Graph.
```

The wording in this entire section needs to be resolved. I think this is supposed to instruct the reader on how to make a new app (rather than follow the sample repo). However this is not communicated to the user at all. Adding some guidance.

> 1. Open the **Startup.cs** file and:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Update the `Startup.cs` file to enable TokenAcquisition by [Microsoft.Identity.Web](https://aka.ms/microsoft-identity-web)
```

>    - at the top of the file, add the following using directive:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. at the top of the file, add the following `using` directives:
```

     ```CSharp
      using Microsoft.Identity.Web;
      using Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI;
      ```

>    - in the `ConfigureServices` method, replace the  following lines:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services) method, replace `services.AddMicrosoftIdentityPlatformAuthentication(Configuration);` with the following code to configure your application to sign in and call graph with Microsoft Identity Web :```

>    - in the `ConfigureServices` method, replace the  following lines:
> 
>      ```CSharp
>            services.AddAuthentication(OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
>                 .AddMicrosoftIdentityWebApp(Configuration.GetSection("AzureAd"))
>                 .EnableTokenAcquisitionToCallDownstreamApi(initialScopes)
>                 .AddInMemoryTokenCaches();
>      ```
> 
>      These enables your application to use the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. This endpoint is capable of signing-in users both with their Work and School and Microsoft Personal accounts (if required).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ```CSharp
      public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
      {
        //. . .
        string[] initialScopes = Configuration.GetValue<string>("DownstreamApi:Scopes")?.Split(' ');
        // Add Graph
        services.AddAuthentication(OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
            .AddMicrosoftIdentityWebApp(Configuration.GetSection("AzureAd"))
            .EnableTokenAcquisitionToCallDownstreamApi(initialScopes)
            .AddMicrosoftGraph(Configuration.GetSection("DownstreamApi"))
            .AddInMemoryTokenCaches();
         //...
      ```
```

> 1. Open the **Startup.cs** file and:
> 
>    - at the top of the file, add the following using directive:
> 
>      ```CSharp
>       using Microsoft.Identity.Web;
>       using Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI;
>       ```
> 
>    - in the `ConfigureServices` method, replace the  following lines:
> 
>      ```CSharp
>            services.AddAuthentication(OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
>                 .AddMicrosoftIdentityWebApp(Configuration.GetSection("AzureAd"))
>                 .EnableTokenAcquisitionToCallDownstreamApi(initialScopes)
>                 .AddInMemoryTokenCaches();
>      ```
> 
>      These enables your application to use the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. This endpoint is capable of signing-in users both with their Work and School and Microsoft Personal accounts (if required).
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

remove this part, is duplicate

>     1. Change the `Properties\launchSettings.json` file to ensure that you start your web app from <https://localhost:44321> as registered. For this:
>     - update the `sslPort` of the `iisSettings` section to be `44321`
>     - in the `applicationUrl` property of use `https://localhost:44321`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Update launchSetting.json
Change the following values in the `Properties\launchSettings.json` file to ensure that you start your web app from `https://localhost:44321`:
    - update the `sslPort` of the `iisSettings` section to be `44321`
    - update the `applicationUrl` property to `https://localhost:44321`
```

> ### Update the `Startup.cs` file to enable TokenAcquisition by [Microsoft.Identity.Web](https://aka.ms/microsoft-identity-web)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

remove this and the following lines. have been done up above.

1. Select **Overview** > **Access policies**.
1. Click on **Add Access Policy**.
1. In the input box for **Secret permissions**, select **Get**.
1. Click on **Select Principal**, add the **system-assigned managed identity** that you have created in the [steps before](#set-up-your-managed-identity). You can use the **Object Id** you have recorded previously to search for it.
1. Click on **OK** to add the new Access Policy, then click **Save** to save the Access Policy.

#### Modify your code to connect to Key Vault

1. In the `appsettings.json` file, find and delete the `ClientSecret` property and its value.
1. In the `Properties\launchSettings.json` file, find the string `ENTER_YOUR_KEY_VAULT_URI` and replace it with the URI of your Key Vault, for example: `https://example-vault.vault.azure.net/`
1. Add the `Azure.Identity` NuGet package to the solution. This sample project has already added this package.
1. Add the following directives to your `startup.cs`.
    </p>
    :information_source: this has been already added in the sample project.

      ```CSharp
      using Azure;
      using Azure.Identity;
      using Azure.Security.KeyVault.Secrets;
      ```

> 1. In your `Startup.cs` file, you must create a `GetSecretFromKeyVault` method. This method sets up the Azure Key Vault client and returns the secret that is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In your `Startup.cs` file, create a `GetSecretFromKeyVault` method. This method sets up the Azure Key Vault client and returns the secret that is required.
```

    </p>
    :information_source: this has already been added in the sample project.

    ```CSharp
    private string GetSecretFromKeyVault(string tenantId, string secretName)
    {
        // this should point to your vault's URI, like https://<yourkeyvault>.vault.azure.net/
        string uri = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("KEY_VAULT_URI");
        DefaultAzureCredentialOptions options = new DefaultAzureCredentialOptions();
    
        // Specify the tenant ID to use the dev credentials when running the app locally
        options.VisualStudioTenantId = tenantId;
        options.SharedTokenCacheTenantId = tenantId;
        SecretClient client = new SecretClient(new Uri(uri), new DefaultAzureCredential(options));

        // The secret name, for example if the full url to the secret is https://<yourkeyvault>.vault.azure.net/secrets/Graph-App-Secret
        Response<KeyVaultSecret> secret = client.GetSecretAsync(secretName).Result;

        return secret.Value.Value;
      }
    ```

> 1. In your `Startup.cs` file, find the `ConfigureServices` method. Add the following code to call the GetSecretFromKeyVault method, right after `services.AddAuthentication`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In your `Startup.cs` file, find the `ConfigureServices` method. Add the following code to call the `GetSecretFromKeyVault` method, right after `services.AddAuthentication`.
```

</table>
```

## Deployment

### Deploying web app to Azure App Services

There is one web app in this sample. To deploy it to **Azure App Services**, you'll need to:

- create an **Azure App Service**
- publish the projects to the **App Services**, and
- update its client(s) to call the website instead of the local environment.

#### Publish your files (WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2)

##### Publish using Visual Studio

Follow the link to [Publish with Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/deployment/quickstart-deploy-to-azure).

##### Publish using Visual Studio Code

1. Install the VS Code extension [Azure App Service](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azureappservice).
1. Sign-in to App Service using Azure AD Account.
1. Open the WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2 project folder.
1. Choose View > Terminal from the main menu.
1. The terminal opens in the WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2 folder.
1. Run the following command:

    ```console

>     dotnet publish --configuration Release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    dotnet publish WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet.csproj --configuration Release
```

    ```

1. Publish folder is created under path ``bin/Release/<Enter_Framework_FolderName>``.
1. Right Click on **Publish** folder and select **Deploy to Web App**.
1. Select **Create New Web App**, enter unique name for the app.

> 1. Select Windows as the OS. Press Enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **Windows** as the OS. Press Enter.
1. Select **.NET Core 3.1 (LTS)** as runtime stack.
```

#### Disable Azure App Services default authentication (WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2)

1. Go to [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), and locate your project there.
    - On the Settings tab, select **Authentication/Authorization**. Make sure **App Service Authentication** is `off` (as we are using our own **custom** authentication logic). 
    - Select **Save**.

> 1. Browse your website. If you see the default web page of the project, then the publication was successful.

Author: @derisen , this section can now be dropped from the code gen

Reviewer: I'll drop it but leave a note in its place. I think people are tempted to switch it on

#### Update the Azure AD app registration (WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2)

1. Navigate back to to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
In the left-hand navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service, and then select **App registrations**.
1. In the resulting screen, select the `WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2` application.
1. In the app's registration screen, select **Authentication** in the menu.
   - In the **Redirect URIs** section, update the reply URLs to match the site URL of your Azure deployment. For example:
      - `https://WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2.azurewebsites.net/`
      - `https://WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2.azurewebsites.net/signin-oidc`

>    - Update the **Front-channel logout URL** fields with the address of your service, for example [https://WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2.azurewebsites.net](https://WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2.azurewebsites.net)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Update the **Front-channel logout URL** fields with the address of your service, for example `https://WebApp-OpenIDConnect-DotNet-graph-v2.azurewebsites.net`
```
